docs/endpoints.md, before:

# Endpoints provided by the python microservice

## Overall Tests

This endpoint shall trigger all tests for a device. Call Certification Endpoint (General)

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/perform_certification/{testRunID}?d={deviceId}&t={tenantId}`

---

## Products

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will give you all products for a Vendor.

PUT `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

POST `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/product`

This endpoint will create a new product managed object.
Body message has to be like:
```json
{
"vendor_name":"vendor",
"product_name":"product",
"product_type":"type",
"tenant_id":"t12345678"
}
```

DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

---

## Testsuites

This endpoint will give you all Testsuites

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?type=c8y_certification_testSuite`

This endpoint will give you the latest Testsuites

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testSuite')$orderby=creationTime desc`

This endpoint will distribute Testsuite from enterprise tenant to all subtenants that are subscribed for Gateway-Certification microservice.

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/testsuite`


---

## Testruns

This endpoint will give you all Testruns

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?type=c8y_certification_testRun`

This endpoint will give you all Testruns - ordered by updated

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testRun'$orderby=lastUpdated asc`

This endpoint will give you all Testruns - with Partial Name

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=10&currentPage=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testRun' and name eq '*DIRK*')$orderby=lastUpdated asc`

This endpoint will create a new Full Certification Run

POST `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/test_run` with the body for the POST request as:

```json
{
 "tenant_id": "tenant_id",                               
 "device_id": "device_id",                               
 "product_id": "product_id"
 }
```


This endpoint will update a certification run

PUT `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}`

This endpoint will delete a certification run

DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

---

## Testcertificates

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate'`

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates - ordered by updated

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate'$orderby=creationTime asc`

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates - with Partial Name

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/`

This endpoint will generate a test_certificate from test_run ID

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/test_certificate/{testRunID}?t={tenantID}`

This endpoint will delete a Testcertificate Managed Object
DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

The endpoint will delete a Testcertificate PDF
DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will Revoke a Testcertificates
POST `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will expiry a Testcertificates
POST `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

---

# Endpoints that can use DPP

Provides all necessary certification information to the devicepartnerportal DPP.

---
## Search for Productname and Vendor

should search for Productname and Vendor as output we expect 0 or 1 valid Product to show the certification Logo

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects. If list is empty it means that no certification exists (no certification Logo). If list contains one element it means that this prodcut was certified (certification logo).

## GET all device certificates for one Product

should get all device certificates for one Product to present them

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=100&currentPage=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects of the same product, descending order (newest first). Device information of each certificate object looks as follows:
```json
{
"device": {
                "c8y_Firmware": {
                    "name": "debian-10.11",
                    "version": "5.10.60.1-microsoft-standard-WSL2",
                    "url": null
                },
                "c8y_Agent": {
                    "name": "DM Reference Agent",
                    "version": "0.2",
                    "url": "8893a9f33a8c"
                },
                "c8y_Hardware": {
                    "serialNumber": "8893a9f33a8c",
                    "model": "docker",
                    "revision": "1.0"
                },
                "deviceId": "1184255"
            }
}
```

**!! PDF Link not defined yet !!**

## GET latest Capabilites for one product where STATUS equals `SUCCESSFUL`
should get for one product all latest Capabilites which have the STATUS of `SUCCESSFUL`

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects ( 0 or 1). If list contains one entity, to get all `SUCCESSFUL` capabilties, search for fragment `tests.modules` and loop through all items. Either the item is type of an `container` (`{"container": true}`), then loop again through all `modules` and check if status equals `SUCCESSFUL`. 

Example:

```json
{ "container": true,
  "id": "sendingOperationalData",
  "title": "Sending Operational Data",
  "mandatory": true,
  "modules": [
     {
       "capabilities": [...],
       "id": "operationDataAlarms",
       "title": "Sending Operational Data - Alarms",
       "status": { 
          "code": "SUCCESSFUL"
       }
     }, ... ]
}
```

Otherwise, if the item is not type of a `container` (no fragment `container` exists), then search straight for status equals `SUCCESSFUL`.

Example:

```json
{
    "capabilities": [...],
    "id": "deviceLogs",
    "title": "Log File Retrieval",
    "status": {
       "code": "SUCCESSFUL"
       }
}
```

## GET all products and filter for capabilities 
should get all products which meets the selected capabilities but needed for the startpage to limit down the amount of products (Filtering)

## GET pdf file for explicit product
should get for one product a pdf file (extension of Case 2)
------

Commit message:

all products and filter for capabilities

docs/endpoints.md, after:

# Endpoints provided by the python microservice

## Overall Tests

This endpoint shall trigger all tests for a device. Call Certification Endpoint (General)

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/perform_certification/{testRunID}?d={deviceId}&t={tenantId}`

---

## Products

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will give you all products for a Vendor.

PUT `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

POST `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/product`

This endpoint will create a new product managed object.
Body message has to be like:
```json
{
"vendor_name":"vendor",
"product_name":"product",
"product_type":"type",
"tenant_id":"t12345678"
}
```

DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/NNN` **planned for release 2.0**

---

## Testsuites

This endpoint will give you all Testsuites

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?type=c8y_certification_testSuite`

This endpoint will give you the latest Testsuites

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testSuite')$orderby=creationTime desc`

This endpoint will distribute Testsuite from enterprise tenant to all subtenants that are subscribed for Gateway-Certification microservice.

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/testsuite`


---

## Testruns

This endpoint will give you all Testruns

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?type=c8y_certification_testRun`

This endpoint will give you all Testruns - ordered by updated

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testRun'$orderby=lastUpdated asc`

This endpoint will give you all Testruns - with Partial Name

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=10&currentPage=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testRun' and name eq '*DIRK*')$orderby=lastUpdated asc`

This endpoint will create a new Full Certification Run

POST `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/test_run` with the body for the POST request as:

```json
{
 "tenant_id": "tenant_id",                               
 "device_id": "device_id",                               
 "product_id": "product_id"
 }
```


This endpoint will update a certification run

PUT `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}`

This endpoint will delete a certification run

DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

---

## Testcertificates

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate'`

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates - ordered by updated

GET `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1&currentPage=1&query=$filter=type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate'$orderby=creationTime asc`

This endpoint will give you all Testcertificates - with Partial Name

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/`

This endpoint will generate a test_certificate from test_run ID

GET `{{baseUrl}}/service/gateway-certification/test_certificate/{testRunID}?t={tenantID}`

This endpoint will delete a Testcertificate Managed Object
DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

The endpoint will delete a Testcertificate PDF
DELETE `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will Revoke a Testcertificates
POST `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

This endpoint will expiry a Testcertificates
POST `{{baseUrl}}/inventory/managedObjects/{{test_run_id}}` **planned for release 2.0**

---

# Endpoints that can use DPP

Provides all necessary certification information to the devicepartnerportal DPP.

---
## Search for Productname and Vendor

should search for Productname and Vendor as output we expect 0 or 1 valid Product to show the certification Logo

### Reeuest

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects. If list is empty it means that no certification exists (no certification Logo). If list contains one element it means that this prodcut was certified (certification logo).

## GET all device certificates for one Product

should get all device certificates for one Product to present them

### Request

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=100&currentPage=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects of the same product, descending order (newest first). Device information of each certificate object looks as follows:
```json
{
"device": {
                "c8y_Firmware": {
                    "name": "debian-10.11",
                    "version": "5.10.60.1-microsoft-standard-WSL2",
                    "url": null
                },
                "c8y_Agent": {
                    "name": "DM Reference Agent",
                    "version": "0.2",
                    "url": "8893a9f33a8c"
                },
                "c8y_Hardware": {
                    "serialNumber": "8893a9f33a8c",
                    "model": "docker",
                    "revision": "1.0"
                },
                "deviceId": "1184255"
            }
}
```

**!! PDF Link not defined yet !!**

## GET latest Capabilites for one product where STATUS equals `SUCCESSFUL`
should get for one product all latest Capabilites which have the STATUS of `SUCCESSFUL`

### Request

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?pageSize=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and product.productName eq '{{product_name}}' and product.vendorName eq '{{vendor_name}}' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID')$orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects of a specific product ( 0 or 1). If list contains one entity, to get all `SUCCESSFUL` capabilties, search for fragment `tests.modules` and loop through all items. Either the item is type of an `container` (`{"container": true}`), then loop again through all `modules` and check if status equals `SUCCESSFUL`. 

**Example:**

```json
{ "container": true,
  "id": "sendingOperationalData",
  "title": "Sending Operational Data",
  "mandatory": true,
  "modules": [
     {
       "capabilities": [...],
       "id": "operationDataAlarms",
       "title": "Sending Operational Data - Alarms",
       "status": { 
          "code": "SUCCESSFUL"
       }
     }, ... ]
}
```

Otherwise, if the item is not type of a `container` (no fragment `container` exists), then search straight for status equals `SUCCESSFUL`.

**Example:**

```json
{
    "capabilities": [...],
    "id": "deviceLogs",
    "title": "Log File Retrieval",
    "status": {
       "code": "SUCCESSFUL"
       }
}
```

## GET all products and filter for capabilities 

should get all products which meets the selected capabilities but needed for the startpage to limit down the amount of products (Filtering)

### Request

**GET** `{{url}}/inventory/managedObjects?withTotalPages=true&pageSize=1000&currentPage=1&query=$filter=(type eq 'c8y_certification_testCertificate' and certificate.status.code eq 'VALID' ) $orderby=lastUpdated desc`

### Response

List of all c8y_certification_testCertificate managed objects, order by latest updates descending. To filter the list of certificates, go through each `tests.modules` items and validat for `status.code` equals `SUCCESSFUL`. See examples above.

## GET pdf file for explicit product

should get for one product a pdf file (extension of Case 2)

------
